Veg momos recipe
Prep time: 30 min
Cook time: 20 min
Serves: 18
Main Ingredients:

flour
cabbage
Ingredients
All purpose flour - 2 cups
Oil - 1 tsp
Salt to taste
Water - luke warm to knead the flour
For vegetable filling:
Cabbage - 1 cup, packed, finely chopped
Carrot - 3/4 cup, finely chopped
Onion - 1, medium size, finely chopped
Green chilies - 1-2, finely minced
Garlic - 2 clove, finely minced
Ginger - 1/2", finely minced
Soy sauce - 1 tsp
Black pepper powder - 1/4 tsp
Sugar - 1/4 tsp (optional)
Salt to taste
Method
To make momos dough, place the flour, oil and salt in a bowl. Mix well and slowly add warm water to make a smooth and soft dough. Cover with a lid and set aside.
To make the vegetable filling, heat oil in a wide pan and add the garlic. Saute for a min, add the chopped green chilies and ginger and mix well. Add the chopped onions and saute for 3 mins till they turn translucent.
Add the chopped carrot and cook for 3-4 mins on medium heat. Add the chopped cabbage and cook for at least 8-10 mins.
Add soy sauce, black pepper powder and sugar and mix well. Turn off the heat and allow to come to room temperature. Just before placing the filling on the rolled out circle, add salt and mix.
To make momos, knead the dough again for 2-3 mins and pinch out small lemon sized balls of the dough and dust with flour. Roll out each ball into a 3" or 4" diameter circle. It should not be too thick or too thin in thickness.
Place a tablespoon of the prepared vegetable filling in the center of each rolled out circle. Do not overstuff as it will be difficult to form a neat pouch shape.
Beginning at one end of the flat circle, gather the edge to form pleats working your way around the circle. Bring the pleats together to form a pouch-like dumpling and seal the top.
Fill and shape all the rolled out circles into pouch-like dumplings. Cover them with a damp cloth to avoid drying out. Grease an aluminum or stainless steel steamer and place the shaped dumplings leaving a little space between each of them. Fill a vessel or pot that is large enough to place the steamer with 3" to 4" of water and bring water to a boil. Ensure that the bottom of the steamer does not touch the water.
Once the water coming to a rolling boil, place the steamer in the vessel and cover with lid. Steam on high heat for 10 mins. The momos are done when a shiny sheen appears over them.
These minimally flavored veg momos with red chutney make for a light yet satisfying dinner.
Tips
You can use a pressure cooker to steam the momos. Do not use the weight while steaming momos.
You can use a bamboo steamer too.
You can line the steamer with cabbage leaves or husk of corn and place the shaped dumplings in it and steam. This prevents sticking of the momos to the vessel.